According to TCP/IP
theres 5 layers

application layer -> transport layer -> network layer -> data link layer -> physical layer 


Data Journey Recap:
My email (application data) is passed down from the Application Layer to the Transport Layer (TCP), where it is broken into segments.
These segments are passed to the Network Layer (IP), where they are addressed and routed.
The Data Link Layer formats them to frames for transmission on a local network (ie Ethernet/WiFi).
Finally, the Physical Layer sends the bits through physical media, like cables or Wi-Fi signals.

Once it reaches the destination, the process is reversed, and the email is reconstructed on the receiving device, eventually reaching the email application.


Physical layer -> lowest level -> Resposible for transmitting indivisual bits from one node to the next
1. Bits transmission
2. data rate (transmissian rate) ssntrol
3. synchronization of bits
4. physical characteristies of interfaces and media
5. Protocols: DSL , 10Base_T

Data link layer -> Responsible fon transmitting frames from one node to another -> works with various types of links (wired LANs/WANs, wireless LANs/WANs)
1. Frames
2. Physical adress
3. Flow control (hop to hop)
4. Error control (hop to hop)
5. Congestion control
6. Access control
7. Protocols: Ethernet , WiFi

Netword Layer -> Responsible for transmitting Packets (datagrams) from source host to destination host across multiple networks
1. determines th best route for packets to travel from source to destination 
2. encapsulates data into packets called datagram
3. includes main protocol IP (IPV4,IPV6) -> connection-less protocol -> no flow control, no error control

Application layer -> Resposible for processes to processes communication between applicatisn runnning on different hosts
1. ensures the data is exchanged batween two application processes using protocols like HTTP, FTP.
2. fasciliates communication between two process running on different machines over a network.
3. Protocols : HTTP, FTP , DNS , SMTP


According to OSI Model
theres 7 layers

application layer -> presentation layer-> session layer -> transport layer -> network layer -> data link layer -> physical layer 

Lack of OSI Model’s Success
Costly, Some of layers were never fully defined, Performance 




